Airline Booking System with SQLite Back-End
===========================================

A tutorial/demonstration project implementing a Python web application for creating and managing airline flight
bookings and passengers. The project has a Flask-based web front end and a SQLite back-end with SQLAlchemy for
data access.


Structure
=========

+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Package**                   | **Contents**                                                        |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| flight_model                  | Classes and business logic for the booking system                   |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| booking_web                   | A simple Flask-based web site built over the flight_booking package |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+


Running the Application
=======================

To run the application, a virtual environment should be created, the requirements should be installed using pip and the
environment should be activated.

With those pre-requisites in place, to run the web-based application in the Flask development web server, enter the
following from the "src/booking_web" folder:

::

    export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/..
    export FLASK_APP=booking.py
    export FLASK_ENV=development
    flask run

The first three commands will need to be modified based on the current operating system. Once the development server
is running, browse to the following URL in a  web browser:

::

    http://127.0.0.1:5000/


Unit Tests and Coverage
=======================

To run the unit tests, a virtual environment should be created, the requirements should be installed using pip and the
environment should be activated.

The tests can then be run from the command line, at the root of the project folder, as follows:

::

    export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/src/
    python -m unittest

The first command adds the source folder, containing the two packages under test, to the PYTHONPATH environment
variable so the packages will be found when the tests attempt to import them. The command will need to be modified
based on the current operating system.

Similarly, a coverage report can be generated by running the following commands from the root of the project folder:

::

    export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/src/
    coverage run --branch --source src -m unittest discover
    coverage html -d cov_html

This will create a folder "cov_html" containing the coverage report in HTML format.


Generating Documentation
========================

To generate the documentation, a virtual environment should be created, the requirements should be installed
using pip and the environment should be activated.

HTML documentation can then be created by running the following commands from the "docs" sub-folder:

::

    export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/../src/
    make html

The resulting documentation is written to the docs/build/html folder and can be viewed by opening "index.html" in a
web browser.


Dependencies
============

The flight booking application has dependencies listed in requirements.txt and also requires that one or more of the
boarding card generators are installed to enable generation and saving boarding cards.


Distribution
============

A distribution can be created that includes both the "flight_model" and "booking_web" packages by running the
following from a command prompt at the root of the project:

::

    python setup.py bdist_wheel

Note that the project's virtual environment should **not** be activated when creating distributions.


License
=======

This software is licensed under the MIT License:

https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

Copyright 2021 David Walker

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated
documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.